Hello, dear listener, and welcome back to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast whose every episode is a cell in the brain of the universe.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
I'm James.
And I'm the exciting prospect of dual cameo with Dame Judy Dench and Dame Diana Rig, and I'll shout out when that comes up.
All right, so we are here to watch series one, episode 10, which is called Black Sun, and it's written by someone we don't know and also directed by a different person that we don't know.
So let's just talk about whether we have any memories of this.
And it's basically down to you and me, Richard.
Do you remember this?
It always is, isn't it?
Yeah, I watched every damn episode in 75, 76 when they were 1st on.
Okay.
I remember the quietness and the stillness and that, again, dear modern listener, you were required to watch.
And if mum was washing up in the other room, and you were in the good room, you would yell to be quiet.
It was, it's not something people get now because devices.
But, yeah, it was compelling and it's, I love the way.
This is Lee Krasna.
Okay.
There's some beautiful scenes in this.
It's really elegantly written.
David Weir, I believe, was the writer and more on him in a bit.
Yes.
I think that we should just head straight in.
So the way it's going to work is this.
I have a word that I'm going to say, and the moment I say that word for the 2nd time, I want you at home to press the play button and I also want Richard to press the play button at the same time.
Paused.
Ah, yes, okay.
So the word is progeria, and the next time that I say that I want you to press the button.
Would you like me to press your pro or your rear?
Just the end of the word.
All right.
So here we go.
Progeria.
And the feeling's gone, and you can't go on proteria.
And we're off.
Fiona Walker.
You've already broken the podcast.
We're 2 seconds in, Brendan.
First Doctor Who reference, actually, 2 seconds in as well.
Lovely Tanya Alexandria.
Coffee tea on me.
Before cow.
I also love that they're colour coded to different portions of the British Isles.
So one is Irish coffee and the other one is Welsh coffee.
What's Welsh coffee?
It's just got more alcohol in it.
Okay, fair enough. curry sauce.
Oh, speaking of which, did we know that Prentice Hancock is a Scott?
He's quite a broad Glaswegian accent in real life.
Because some of us think he might be a bit of a hottie, so I just threw that in too.
It's mainly the moustache, to be honest. very handsome chaps.
Lots of handsome chaps.
There's Kano showing everyone how to deport.
Yeah, more chevroned angles than his computer banks, isn't he?
Look at that.
There's a lot of cleft acting in this.
As he turns away, yes.
Some of the some of the facial expressions from Prentice Hancock in this episode, feel like they should be underscored by sort of 70s pawn sort of guitar.
Well, that will come. 70 point 70s point.
I think it's guaranteed in space 1979.
A lot of porno funk.
Oh, speaking of whom.
Hi, Victor.
Professor Swinger.
Spinger.
Protectors.
So where are we for the people at home who don't have the TV on?
We're in main mission.
We're being attacked by an asteroid.
Beige Heaven and Fiona Walker's rock is heading towards us.
I was about to make a silver nemesis joke.
That pumice stone of doom and suddenly everyone's got their heels scuffed and...
Tanya's hair has been completely ruined by the impact.
Not over that very expensive lamp.
Although, actually, Prentices was fine.
A lot of a lot of hand on hip acting.
Now, let's remember black sons, and I love that they don't, and Jerry deliberately changed the script and said we're not talking about black who.
Yes, I think that's a good choice.
Only 1972, was it, that we actually got some proper evidence that they were a thing?
And so I think that, you know, the thing about the black sun is that it maintains the idea that this show is mythic rather than science fiction.
And so we have black holes and we know what they are.
We don't know what this is.
This can have any effect that it wants to have.
And the idea of a black sun is, you know, something, I was trying this afternoon because I have really, really strong memories of some...
Yeah, oh, it looks stunning.
But I have really strong memories of the idea of a black son from Roman poetry somewhere and I just couldn't find the reference.
But the idea of a sun being black is so brutal.
You know the sun is the thing that relieves us from darkness.
And yeah, nothing is worse, I think, possibly, than a black sun.
So I think it is beautiful and mythic, and basically it's a painting of a black sum that's threatening them the entire time, that we just sort of see all the time, but I think it works terrifically well.
It's a gorgeous script or about painting.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's lovely painting.
And David Weir is quite an accomplished television writer.
We lost him in 2011.
But, you know, this show, when they finally got over that that thing from Mandel of only using American writers, cough.
But this is an early script.
What was it in production order?
I think it was number three.
It was the 3rd one film.
Yeah, yeah.
So it was a kind of effect.
It was supposed to be an effect light one, but of course it wasn't.
Anyway, there's an interesting story to the script, but oh, and I also should correct myself, Lee Katson.
And let's not forget how much esteem Nick Tate holds still for Katzen's work and just what an artist he was.
There's another artist. there, Paul Jones.
We have to talk about him in a bit.
Yeah, yeah.
That's kind of weird.
He's currently advancing on the black sun in an eagle.
He is right now.
Yeah, yeah.
He's born in Portsmouth and he has an American accent here. that sounds like the American accent that someone bought in Portsmouth might have.
He was much better in Manfred Mann.
Yes.
Which is actually quite a cool little group and they wore black skivvies and type black jeans.
Yeah, it's very hot.
And he does look like a pop person and I think there's a bloody good reason why Alan said, send the pretty one.
But I mean, that's the thing about Space 1999.
Youve got Anushka Hempel in it.
Do you know what I mean?
You have pretty people all the way sacrificed in order to get to be the wicker man in space.
Yeah.
And like his accent is really terrible, but he's great in this scene and he's kind of chill and relaxed and stuff, but I think it's Paul Jones.com or something like he's still with us.
And it was the, oh, I can't remember the name of the band.
Victor's life would be a lot easier if he got a chalkboard that didn't actually shove the light through it.
You could actually see his own equations.
There's there's one moment where he tries to write a subscript number somewhere and doesn't actually manage to do it, like he can't actually make the mark on the on the perspects, which is a bit of a problem.
Oh, and every school teacher in the room will remember that same moment.
Oh, he's actually had it crimped.
Because he's using a whiteboard mark instead of Sharpie.
Yeah, maybe that.
And Santris bangs honestly at the level of Leonard Nimoy. here it is.
Watch him try and write the superscript there.
Nope, it's not working.
It can't be T squared.
It's not happening And also, we can't just go for another one.
It's a 52nd shot.
No, we run out of film for the day.
They'd have to rub it out, though.
Or is this the correct?
The acetate out.
Yeah, exactly.
James, you missed it, maximum power.
There's so many maximum powers in this episode, I would say.
There really are quite a lot.
Oh my god.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You mentioned quickness of editing and, you know, because Lee was told, okay, Lee, we've booked you.
You've paid you for several stories.
This is your 2nd gig.
You cannot run over.
You cost us a fortune.
This is Sylvia and Jerry saying this.
Anyway, he had a 9 day live action shoot time and then, you know, about 5 effects. sort of okay for something that is mostly Moonbase, you know, Moonbase bound, one set bound.
Yeah, yeah.
You took 16 days.
Right, okay.
So he's supposed to be her boyfriend?
Yeah.
Oh, even more interesting in David Weir's script. their fiancée.
Ah.
I actually, a lot of cuts in this story.
I liked that.
Like, I kind of think...
It puts Moro on the back...
It does a little bit.
But he does actually get to act against that a little bit later when he comes in and is sort of kind to her when she heads off on the survival ship.
But it is a little way to make us care a little bit more about Paul Jones's character.
Who I'm so fond of in all the other episodes we've enjoyed.
Well, because we've yeah, we've literally never seen him.
It doesn't matter that she has a boyfriend that we've never seen before because this is not the kind of...
She cut him off top of the cops.
That's a gorgeous shot, considering, you know.
But and I also think two, that because this is about the experience of impending loss, and like, you know, the feeling of death, like impending death, having one of our main characters on the on the main mission, experience, the death of a loved one, I actually think works really well.
He's uh...
Complete with Mirlon, Death by Mirlon.
Well, again, these are all Katson's takes on what the effects need to do or some of it was...
All right, so much of it was done by, and he gets the actors.
The reason it ran over.
The reason it ran over is he spends so much time with the actors doing multiple shots of their faces, tripping Sandra up, social fall, convincingly.
Sweep the leg.
You shot her with a BB gun.
Could I could I mention David Weir's connection to our oevra?
Oh, which is he...
Speak for yourself.
Which is he was the writer of the abandoned Doctor Who story, Killer Cats of Ginseng.
Oh, wow.
I was going to mention he did monkey, but that's much more interesting.
So yeah, he was the writer when Graham Williams said, look, inflation is getting a bit high.
You are doing the end of the season story.
You don't have much money.
He's the one who came back and said, I want 5000 killer cats in a stadium on Gallifrey.
Yeah, killers of the dark.
It was scheduled to be called.
That's right.
Yes.
Because and instead they got slightly obese, I'm right here.
British character actors to put on loincloths and stand about not looking cold and our very own gay waterhouse.
They need to save up those costumes for survival.
But wouldn't it have been, look, he's a bloody good writer.
He did something called the Lotus Eaters, which I remember as a little boy.
Um, I think it's based on the same novel by um, Wyndham Lewis anyway, it was a really good piece of television.
And and Lee H.
Katson certainly has sci-fi cred.
You know, he had directed the outer limits.
He went on to direct things like The Man from Atlanta.
He did the pilot of man from Atlanta, right?
And it's bloody good.
I still remember.
Look, he's really good.
He treats it like a Hollywood director.
He's super careful.
The actors are dawdly.
Right.
Well, that's what Nick Tate says.
Yeah, everyone here chooses respect.
He was so kind to them.
He was so careful to instruct them on what emotionality because, geez knows, there's not a lot in the set or the script.
You've gotta work it.
Yeah, this episode.
That's the thing that struck me when I was watching it the other day.
This episode looks beautiful.
It's like, yeah, the way it's shot.
The close-ups, the way they linger on certain characters and capture their emotion.
It's really Victor's lazy Susan Trey.
Thank you. which you know has been at all of his parties and everyone's going, I'm not licking that.
I mean, the funny thing is, it's what you said earlier.
This is very light on incident, not very much happens.
You know, they approach the black sun.
It's going to kill them.
It doesn't kill them, and then we go off into space.
But current election cycles.
But what it is about is the character's reactions to things.
And so you want someone who's able to kind of foreground that, I think.
Especially Victor's kind of mysticism.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, that, like, they really leaned into that and sort of, I think examinated in a way.
I mean, this episode is one that I remember incredibly well from watching it as a child and the, you know, last time is the mission to the Darians, I don't remember at all.
This one I remember very well.
Neither do I. I was on it.
But what I remember most is just the incredible humanity and sort of strange mysticism of Victor.
And now that I've watched a lot of original Star Trek.
I can kind of see how interesting that is as a choice where you have the, you have the triumvirate that you have in in Star Trek.
You have the doctor, the science officer, and the captain in both shows, but what you do is you make the science officer who is brutally logical in Star Trek.
Are you make him the most humane, the most open-minded person.
Sexually predatory. and the most sexually available person.
Yeah, yeah.
A swinger.
You mean?
You see, I think this scene is adorable.
So the 2 of them, Victor and John are on the surface of the moon and they're being silly in order to, like they're testing the shield thing, but they're also improving crew morale.
And then, you know, this scene ends and you've got Helena yelling at them for being such dipshit.
I love that.
Yeah, why did you do it?
Because it's about morale.
We're gonna die.
Yeah, yeah.
This is this is just to try and keep people positive.
Like, yeah.
Oh, that line, by the way, when she says it's beautiful, like fish scales.
This is the amount of work that Weir puts into his script.
So all of those 5 towers, like a rainbow peacock flag, it's going to have slightly different colours and disk like swalls.
It was just too expensive to do.
So they just did it as a dome.
That was that fish scales, in it?
Which makes more sense once you know that.
But it's still very beautiful and elegant for 1974.
Yeah, yeah.
I'm Australian.
Can I mention at this point, if we were standing about, you know what David Wee's most celebrated for?
He wrote the entire English version of Monkey, the 1979 version.
Oh did he?
So they didn't have translated scripts.
He doesn't speak Japanese.
So he just saw the show and made up a song.
He had a big interest in Buddhism.
Right.
And he just said, he wanted to turn his yeah So he's Barry Letts.
Barry Letts.
And Miriam Margolese was, of course, Tripitaka, as you know.
And literally all of the female characters.
Ah, yes, yes.
David Collings, those Collings.
Where are we doing the monkey podcast?
I'm never doing that.
I believe you said before we started recording.
Fuck no.
Yeah, that was it. yeah.
Yes, I said, if that joke ever comes up again, I'm just going to say I'm not fucking doing it.
Okay, well, you know how to be honest, darling.
But I am doing the monkey podcast.
I've already got the URL. ww.monkeymagic.com.
Born from egg on a mountaintop.com. best one's better On the topic of translating stuff.
Something I've talked about on other podcasts is the early 90s anime Samurai Pizza Cats, the Japanese original being Kieto Nindenti and D. And for years, people said, oh, they had to write totally new scripts because they weren't given the scripts.
But the fact of the matter is they were given the scripts, but the scripts were so full of Japanese pop culture references that they went.
These are incredibly useless to us.
They were so dense that they couldn't translate them, basically.
Well, it's just it, you know, it translated, but the line in English wasn't funny.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
So, didn't scam.
Yeah, yeah.
So much, much like monkey, they, they, they rewrote it based on the synopsis and based on what they could see with the vision and fuelled the...
It's a lot of fun.
The villain is a robot rat called the big cheese who occasionally will dress up as a cheerleader for no readily apparent reason.
I think we get that in season 2 of Spaceman.
We do.
And is voiced by a Paul Lind impersonator.
Oh, it's definitely season two.
So back to the show.
There is a lot happening because Babs is expressing...
She is expressing...
Oh my god, she moved an eyebrow.
Nathan, is this the is this the picture you've rejected for this episode?
Yes, because Babs here is doing exactly the same facial expression in the same part of the set as she was doing in episode one.
You should do that.
No, no, no, abuse people.
No, no, no.
I've already picked a lovely one.
Someone's left their tonka toy on the...
You know what?
adorable, isn't it?
I blame Paul.
Whenever they do that, it just reminds me of Invisible Enemy.
Ah yes.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
So this, look at this with the camera really low.
There's a kind of fish fish-eyed lens thing.
Fans of UFO realise we're finally in CID.
Yeah, okay. the actual satellite scene.
It's beautiful, isn't it?
It sounds so close to me, Victor.
And the blue, like the blue of the walls just to make it.
That's colder.
Everything that Victor touches turns blue.
You should notice the body language from Kano's.
I not coming to another of your parties.
So there's a weird thing with Kano this episode where we're going to deactivate computer and he's not super happy about it.
Yes, because it doesn't make sense otherwise, I think.
Yeah, no, where scripts were known for being very intricate, which again, cats and apparently worked with him on that.
It's a shame.
We don't get to see the full thing.
I mean, I don't mind that there are references to things that we don't understand.
Do you know what I mean?
It makes it a little bit less like a play being presented for our entertainment and a little bit more like some things that are really happening that we don't understand everything about.
Speaking of which, is it the correct time to point out that the character, Mike Ryan, sacrificed to the wilderness?
Yes. in the script, it's Mike Myers. wonderful.
Meanwhile, sorry, I've just gone speechless again.
Because he's crimped his hair.
Yeah, he's really hot here.
But I think also sweet.
It's partly because one of his roles in the show is being a belligerent dickhead, you know what I mean?
Like he's very frequently oppositional and angry about what's going on.
But one of the things that this episode does is because it puts them in a situation where they're basically all going to die, they're not being like panicky dickheads about it, they're resigned and mature in their response.
And it makes me like all of them a lot more.
Um, and particularly the love between the 3 main characters, but also, also Moro as well.
But, um, Prentice in that shot just then that we're watching, the, the, the business he was doing with his eyes as he's having conversation with Konik, is just really intense. in a way that is quite compelling.
Well, I think it is the fact that they've all kind of accepted that they're going to die at this point.
And so everyone is everyone is just being a little bit more real and there is something about seeing them facing it with that sort of equanimity.
I mean, you say that, but look what Victor's about to do.
Yeah, yeah.
But he's trying to fix the thing.
Like, they're still kind of...
Fix the Aurac tank.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's just a box of flashing rubber lights, Barry.
So cool.
Oh, top quality work.
Yeah, yeah.
Quick, everyone put a hand on him. hold him down.
Before we ask for your keys.
Don't touch the bowl.
But you see, I think this scene is incredibly beautiful because here you see Helena and Victor together and it's just clear that the 2 of them really love one another.
It's not in a kind of, you know, Victor's parties kind of way.
But like in a proper, proper way. like in respect.
Yeah, look at it.
Genuine.
Yeah, yeah.
No, exactly.
It's beautiful So I do love how there's nowhere photo had to put the resuscitation...
You know, I do wonder if, um, uh, in Starfrek is duration.
I do wonder if Picard having an artificial heart is inspired by Space Mortem.
And look, you know, Gene absolutely would have been watching this and then as...
As I remember, listen tomorrow, people.
Aside from reruns of Doctor Who in that episode of Black Adder 2, he's in.
So tomorrow people are the Paul Morrow people.
Oh my god.
Stop it at once.
Sorry.
I'm not sorry.
Only one of them is appropriate for Roger Price to fancy.
Yeah, they're all very chill, aren't they?
Oh, and see, I like this, Sandra, about Mike. no need to say anything.
Like, I actually think the fact that that's underplayed, that it's kind of thrown away.
I think it just adds a little weight to that.
She's not like a silly, screamy woman, as you would have in some science fiction.
She's like, I'm a fucking professional.
I'm quietly mourning.
Yeah.
And we're all going to die.
My job done and we're all going to die.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So his cano complaining about turning the computer off, like a 14 year old who has to come to dinner.
Yes.
You know what actually happens though?
It's all cut out.
Barbara Shelley was not happy because she had got more lines in this one.
So computer.
That's me.
Sorry, Barbara Shelley or Barbara Bain?
Barbara Shelley's the computer.
Oh, I see.
Which they kept quiet for me, I don't know why.
Oh, God, she's even been the star.
Who?
In the 60s.
Sorry, go on.
So so in in the in the original script.
Moonbay, um, the central computer selected 10 Alphans to crew the survival ship.
Uh, you know, at 5 men of 5 women, not the 3 and three.
And included Helena and Kernig.
So where's intention was for the Borg, sorry, Bergman Forcefield was a, you know, the grid of Towers.
What am I trying to say here?
Um, it didn't, it failed. partially fails. anyway, there's a lot more going on.
It really was like a 2 hour story in the end.
Um, But Christopher Penfold heavily rewrote it to, you know, trim it down to running times.
But there were, there were, the computer realised that it was going to be deactivated in order to power Bergman's force field, which wasn't running smoothly in the 1st, you know, 25 minutes.
So deciding to take action to protect itself, it locked Bergman in his quarters until Kernig reminds it that its function is to obey orders and report any conflicts with its programming, not act independently to resolve those conflicts, and that was the line.
And Kano was also getting furious about, there's almost this subplot of it showing intelligence.
Sorry, Victor.
I can't do that.
Yeah, exactly.
There was the whole cheering test thing that was happening here.
And look, it would have been a really interesting depth of a story.
But it is just a little bit too bad.
And it's meant to be 48 minutes.
Yeah, it's a whole separate episode.
No, exactly.
B-pot should have been its own episode.
Yeah.
And and then again, or, you know, like I'm the last person to say, this should be longer.
Because, because I think this is a good episode and because I think it's a significant moment in the show where they all face death and they all realise that the fact they're on a TV program that occurs every week means that they're going to survive and it's the god of narrative exigency that that kind of make sure that they're still with us next week. it.
But from the other side of the wood, because don't forget David Wu's interest in Buddhism and you can see what he goes on to with monkey.
I think they're all discovering Godhead.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, notion of it.
Oh, no, no, absolutely they are.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And so it seems like a big enough episode.
Like, if the fucking bringers of wonder gets too...
Why couldn't this have got too?
Yeah, there's enough there, even with the cutdown version, not there.
You could actually probably made this into a two-parter.
Because, I mean, in a way, this is a little bit like the one with Margaret Watts a face.
What's the one?
I don't know, Matt Berry Bear Magic.
So bear magic guy, whose name is Smitty.
Smith is in Doctor Who.
And he, Bob, sorry, is Count Federico.
Oh, it's John Morris.
John Morrow.
And he's credited.
And isn't he superb?
Yeah, yeah, almost nothing.
Oh my god.
Yeah, isn't that amazing?
Wow.
Hey, John.
Because I think this is a huge moment where you get the computer reading out the 6 people who have been chosen.
I mean, and it was kind of big, but they were cut down for budgetary reasons.
No, there's another scripty thing there, but yeah, you're right. it ran double.
I think that I think if it's choosing John and Helena, then you've got a problem and then you have a lot of time to where you have to deal with that, whereas if there's just 3 people and it only chooses Helena, but not John.
Also, Kerning just fibs.
Yeah, yeah.
Eyes like a rug.
And then he says, you know, oh, isn't she superb?
Yeah, beautiful, Angelo.
Professor Angela.
And that great shot with Angela Robinson.
And every other time he's read a name out, we've immediately cut to them.
With Angela Robertson, there's a woman staring in the screen of the computer, but it's not her. and then she moves and then you've got that superb actress behind her.
It's so good.
It also highlights the diversity of this cast.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I agree.
Yeah, you have a black woman, you have a Japanese man.
Yep, a black son.
A black son.
No, but I mean, even the crew in main mission is very diverse as well.
Sandra?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
There's that bloke?
That bloke?
There's that noustache on mine.
Is that Australian?
And then it's Australian?
Yeah, yeah.
It does actually look like a sort of budget porn hub, doesn't it?
It is multicultural, you know?
Yeah, yeah.
I can't do an Australian accent.
Sorry.
Yeah, yeah, you can.
That's a problem.
Anyone else that does it just sounds South African.
Only Australians can do Australian accents.
And not even New Zealanders. can't do it either.
I've actually set my Siri to male South African.
I have to say that...
Oh, Helen is doing dish.
She's cross.
Yeah, but you see, I like this scene as well. death stairs.
I don't want to go.
It's my death.
I can choose to.
So David Tennanty, I love where he sends her off because he's going to die and he wants to die thinking that she might survive and he knows that she probably wouldn't and it doesn't matter, but he wants to die with just that glimmer of hope.
I think it's beautiful.
Yes.
What difference can it make?
Yeah, yeah.
What difference?
It makes a difference.
You've stolen the key light.
I think that's so good, isn't it?
And it was Penfold's choice.
It's not in words.
Stop leaving your toys around.
Do you like they're acting cold now?
Yeah.
It's cold acting.
Bring me a Kagool.
No, no, the season cupboard.
He did.
No one wants a vegetarian sausage.
And they've turned off the St.
Patrick backlight.
I love her bag.
Look at her canvas bag.
I want that bag.
I have that bag.
So, period.
Just in case you weren't expecting it, it's beige.
I think my mother had one.
Look, it's so beautiful again.
So gorgeous.
He loves her.
She loves him.
BBF.
My best friend.
Yeah.
And there's no dialogue. not forced to listen to them talking to one another.
And you know what?
To get this level of emotion and sentiment in Star Trek, we will have to wait for Picard season three.
Yeah, yeah.
Like it took 30 years of character development to get that level of emotion between the next gen crew and we have that...
Yeah, I literally just watched episode 10 of season 3 of Picard last night.
Oh my god, I was in tears.
So good.
It was really great. flushed through the pink tunnels.
It's like, Beverly, how do you know how to fly the ship?
I blew up a borg ship with a son and all anyone talks about is the sex candle.
They are a lover of the lavender passageway, right?
Oh, dear.
You're being lovely.
He said, yes, I was actually into the villa, but he did too.
I do like this.
Such a two- timing husky, though.
Oh, why?
I also love that shot.
Shot between the 2 of the boys as well.
And like he doesn't say anything.
He just puts his finger up.
It's so well done.
A lot of boys have done the same thing.
Are we back on Pornhub with this?
I think we basically are.
Now cough twice.
And look, there's your tonka toy.
Do you see that?
I want one.
I could get them.
I can get them now.
Everything.
Isn't it beautiful?
Just hope you are a tough hole.
It is.
Although he said Eagle 5 and it's Eagle 6.
I wish you did.
Can you read the numbers more carefully, please?
Hard, yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
I think that that's it.
It's like a theatre curse, isn't it?
I wish you all good luck.
You bastard.
Well, they're the ones who have a chance of surviving it.
Everyone else on...
Don't say Macbeth. unless God comes along to fix things.
It's a bit like, oh, it's a very quiet night in the emergency room.
It's Halloween.
There was a deleted scene there, if you'd like to know it.
It was Sand or Ele's.
I don't even think he even makes to the final cut, and a woman from the surface section were loading those odd hexagonal supply crates, which don't actually fit against each other at all and would never be in real life into equal 5, which is not equal 5 or equal 6 while they discussed rumours about the efficacy for the force field, which had been failing for the 1st part of the episode.
And the purpose of the survival ship because nobody knew.
And Helena and Matthias arrive overhearing the woman's speculation that Kernig Bergman and the main mission staff were secretly planning to use the ship to escape Alpha's destruction.
Yeah, okay.
So then there was a lot of hottie chat going on.
Oh, by the way, that's just lovely seeing, she's kind of like the Angela Rippon of space, isn't she?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
She's the news guard.
I'm turning off the news.
Goodbye.
Yeah.
Bye.
Bye, bye.
See, no TikTok.
We have to turn the tellies off to save...
I've saved TikTok.
I love that they've done a blue cast to reflect this.
How cold it is.
Very subt.
No, it's because the light from the force.
Oh, of course.
Yeah, clever.
Yeah.
But I think it does also sound kind of gold.
But yes, I think you're right.
The colour of the Sydney Metro.
So this is stunningly beautiful, isn't it?
Every shot, the close-up shots of the, of the dark sun, the, like the half moon heading off into the blackness, all of it.
Yeah, that is from the season 2, isn't it?
No.
Everyone's wearing a Kagool.
Him pre-cosplaying David Tennant in.
Yes.
Although he has, yes.
In, um, it's the Satan pitch.
Yes.
I really wish it had been a Tom Scarf, though, just to take the piss out of it.
It nearly is, isn't it?
It nearly is.
It is the right.
Yeah, no, it's not, it's still pert we, technically.
Yeah.
Um, with you mentioning, uh, Sandor, Eles, um, Richard.
I just wanted to mention...
Hug like a draft excluded.
Well, yeah.
But also he is in a very early Avengers Concerto season three.
Oh, love Sherto.
He's the concert pianist in Concerto.
So who is this person?
He's, he's, uh, he does all these kind of genre shows like he does.
Danger Man.
He does the professionals.
And is he cut out of this?
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
Did we notice David Robb in, there's all these hotties.
Still touching my nipple, Victor.
Told you I'm not coming to your party.
So I'm just...
I'm just showing Nathan a picture of a young Sandor Elles about 10 years before.
Oh, my God.
He's very young and twinky.
He's got a bit of a sort of Eric Roberts kind of look.
It is very Twinky Twunky, isn't it?
Okay, that's why I don't remember him.
He has a he has a club.
Bigness just produced...
He's just produced a cigar and he's being told that he's not allowed to smoke and it's kind of like, I've got 2 hours left to live.
Can you calm out, calm the fuck down.
And in fact, I think it's great at the end that he is smoky at the end when they're all still alive.
I love that.
It's wonderful.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It's so gorgeous.
That last shot, isn't it?
Yeah.
I actually laughed out loud.
There was one moment that I laughed out loud, but I laughed out loud at the dialogue in this scene.
So this is Sandra and Helena.
In the survival ship, and Helena says, when I was a little girl, I was terrified of the dark, and you kind of think, okay.
And then, so I'm just this.
I was terrified of doctors, which I just think is. such a great line as you're looking at just to say, some things never change.
And it's just well, like there's a little look between them.
All of that stuff, just the warmth between all of the regular characters in this episode absolutely sells it for me.
Yeah, I'm still freaking scared of them too, woman.
Look at that shot.
It's a massive thing too, that big fire.
Yeah, that poly stone moon is beautiful, isn't it?
Isn't it?
Is it polystyron?
It must be fine.
No it's fibreglass.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. facetious, obviously.
But that, because, you know, it's half black and it's heading into the, heading into the black sun. just think it looks amazing.
I've just noticed how limpid all the main actors' eyes are.
Sylvia didn't cast anyone that didn't have blue eyes.
Hang on, except for Sandra and maybe Moro.
Yeah.
No, Morrow's got very green eyes.
Yeah, which is even rarer.
But no, all the principles have these limpid azures.
Yeah.
This is why this episode works.
Yeah, this is what I remember.
It's this conversation.
This is the centre. the heart of the episode, isn't it?
And like Victor says there's no god, but he's interested in a cosmic intelligence of some kind.
It's actually, it's it's space 1979 doing Beckett.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
But I mean, part of the thing that I've said, I think, about the show in the past is that it's bleak, like it's kind of horrible.
The universe is full of terrible, terrifying things.
That's just Victor's pump.
Yeah, yeah, then it's full of people in sort of nylon sort of gorilla suits and stuff.
Stupid eyebrows.
Yeah, that's right.
But before then, in series one.
It's about terrifying, you know, the world is bleak... on sexy planets.
But here there's a god, you know, there is someone looking after them and making sure they're going to be okay.
And here she reveals herself in the most kind of obvious way.
And so even though this is a bleak world full of terrifying things and incomprehensible things, there's some principle that underlies it.
Yeah, see, I think Paul is great in this scene.
I love him.
No, with his little turtleneck.
His tactile neck?
He's mum knitted that.
He's only allowed to bring 2 things.
Looks like he's about to try and kill James Bond.
If James Bond was George Lazenby.
Yes.
Which saddens me that he's not, but anyway.
It's nice, but that's them saying goodbye to one another forever as well.
And they're all just going to retreat to their own place with their own people.
Like a cat.
Yeah.
Disappearing behind the fridge duck.
Brandy. 60-year-old brandy.
Sorry, so brutal.
When we see him again, I have a few things to say about Vincent Wong, who is playing Fujita.
Yes.
He has a very long career. including the Avengers.
He does look familiar.
Yeah, and also Doctor Who.
Now, as you would expect, he is in talent of Wang Chang.
Okay.
He is too, yes.
But he's also one of the eternal captains in Enlightenment.
Okay.
Yes, I remember.
And before that, he is the Chinese delegate in Day of the Daleks.
Wow.
And to top it all off, he is in 2 Bond movies.
He is a croupier in Diamonds of Forever.
And he is one of the, I think Korean generals in Die another Day.
Wow.
Okay.
He's generally happy.
Populous.
Yes.
So we've just told all of our podcasts together.
I don't think he did Blake 7.
I don't think he had the pleasure of Dudley's gong.
Did Tierra appear in...
I love this.
M.J.
Whitaker's Doctor Who.
No, no, he, I believe he passed away before that.
Yes, 2015.
I love I do love that that pullout shot of Victor and um, Gorgeous. and Koenig on the, I was going to say, bridge, but no, main mission.
No, no, he passed away in 2015.
So, um, not my doctors will be very happy to know that he never had to put opportunity.
I really want them to have a moment of happiness.
Oh they never will.
Literally never.
Wish granted.
I've cursed them It's so pretty.
It's wonderful, isn't it?
It's like a Maya Christmas window.
But I think this is great.
Get it?
Season two.
Because these are just no one?
We don't know any of these people, do we?
Smitty is here.
Count Federico's over there on the on the Rhine.
But yeah, Tanya's.
Tanya's not even here.
No, no.
She's making the coffee.
And so these are just people.
He is delightful, John Laurimore.
He looks like he'll kill you just for your toaster.
And his beautiful Barb.
Yeah, yeah, playing chess with cologne bottles.
Yeah.
And Lippies.
It's very, it's very languorous shot.
It's definitely not speech.
You can see they're going for the Kubrick vibe and Catson still believed it was the answer, the obvious logical answer to, or sequel to 2001.
And that is how they pitched it.
Yeah.
And so all these languid and technical reshoots. totally fine.
They should have just absorbed it.
No, they shouldn't cause budgets.
And here it is. here is Tanya.
Looking all sultry and feline.
Paul's 70s porn guitar.
Paul, I'm Paul.
I've seen this video.
I did actually think that she was coming in to have some sex.
Of course she is.
Why wouldn't you?
So that is happening?
That's why she's packed a toaster under that thing.
He's wearing his moustache rides ¢5 shirt under that turtle.
I'd pay more than 5 cents.
Like for sure.
Sorry.
Two dollars.
Okay, yeah, that's right.
Two or three dollars.
My major question is, what the frick, they still haven't drunk that. been through all of this and they're still going, Oh, no, something worse is bound to happen.
But I think also that's kind of the point.
Like, because he says, what are we celebrating?
It's kind of like, it's a 60-year-old brandy, if I'm going to experience it, it's got to be now.
Brandy Wonder, you'll be 60 years old.
Have the same pleasure, but yes.
But it's, and it's this, it's the, you know, him smoking the cigar at the end.
Do you know what I mean?
The time to the time to enjoy these things is now.
I'm getting uncorked as we speak.
Oh now they're invisible.
Peter really hasn't been taking his Savirax. of them have.
Those lips are very, very dry.
Yes, gorgeous.
And you know, quantum theory really backs this up now.
Also, black holes are freaking tiny.
No, as in what happens on the event horizon and that we are what we think with 3D, we're actually a projection of a 2D universe from the rim of one black hole and the maths proves it and it's been about 10, 15 years now that we've had this theory cough.
But hey, yeah, anyway, at this point of matter and energy as you get to that, to that point where gravity no longer.
Anyway.
Um, what was I going to say?
All of this. and thought, oh, let's not go there.
Thought proceeding matter.
Yeah, this is what he was reading about and how Buddhism, how Buddhism has so many equations, though, sorry, so many, so many reflections back and forward to modern quantum theory.
There's that wonderful moment where later on where they theorise to the god that they speak to that every star is a is a cell in the brain that is the universe.
And she says to them, that's a beautiful way of thinking about it.
And like, so this is the point where all of the sort of space nonsense breaks down and we just openly say something more mystical as happening.
And here, they headed off in the other direction, but now they're involved in the black star because that's the thing that's going to say.
I think they're just watching their careers.
Yes.
Oh, there it went.
God believes in plot expediency.
Yeah.
And and contract renewals.
Exactly.
And decides to bring them back.
But I'm contracted for another 14 episodes.
Exactly, right.
No, no, this is episode 3 by production.
They've got a lot to go We can't kill them all off right.
They paid Barbara Bain a lot of money for this.
Isn't that beautiful?
That shot with the moon going off into the black size?
Just gorgeous.
Oh, now things are going to go a little bit.
Oh.
He's hung the Christmas tinsel.
I don't feel anything.
What the freak did you give me?
Oh my God.
We should we should get on to Pete to make a make a gift of that.
I don't feel anything.
Oh, why haven't we got Mr. Pete Lambert to gifts for this series for us?
Yes.
Pete.
Hi, I've made a lot of more work for you.
Now we're all covered in latex for some reason.
You know, I was making fun of this on the way here, but it's not actually that bad.
Yeah, the hands. hands are fantastic.
The hands are great.
That's interesting.
I'm so excited.
I see J.
Judy Dench.
In science fiction.
And I was very unfair.
Diana Dawes.
You can tell, you can tell Lando, Landau chucked the shits, which is why he gets the good mask.
It's a terrible one.
It doesn't fit.
I wonder what they're doing.
I mean, is it just a is it to sell passage of time that they've just been here forever?
It's the Kubrick thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
It is, isn't it?
It really is.
But time is one.
So they could just as easily be infants.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And that they're gaining wisdom.
They're speaking to God.
And I love the idea that God is undetectable because she moves at such a slow pace that her thoughts are 1000s of years apart.
Their thoughts are 1000s of years apart.
And she's like, bye.
Well, she doesn't actually get credited, Richard.
I couldn't find out who plays Don.
Okay, I wondered about that.
Oh, you know what?
I just checked.
I just checked in the original script notes I've got here.
Do you know who plays God in this?
Diana Rick.
Who's ready to bite me?
Diana Dawes.
Dame Judy Dench.
No.
No, no, no, it's Judy Dent.
It's not.
No.
It's Judy Dench.
Wow.
Same.
Oh, my...
It is Judy King.
Oh my fucking God.
Wow, that's just typecasting isn't it?
She is God.
No, that's Olivia Cole.
There's nothing as stale as that woman's infinite variety.
I'm watching this old bloody thing again.
Judy, she said she's only gone to a disco once.
This was it.
This was the disk.
I haven't been to heaven.
He said, yes, you know, you did.
You went to see Cher.
She doesn't remember any of it.
She offered tits.
We all were. not on brandy.
Sorry, Brandy.
I wouldn't object.
Chan, I do not protest.
But honestly, the makeup is hilarious.
The makeup is hilariously bad.
But again, I think it benefits from the idea that it's what we can get in a film camera that's going to appear on screen and so it's lights.
Or who I actually met on the dance floor in the 80s.
And they try and focus on as well as possible and have the bright lights to kind of cover it up.
Yeah.
So, like, it's, yeah, like, gets it, okay.
It's okay.
But it's also terrible makeup.
Yeah, yeah, it is kind of showable.
Well, apparently...
Sorry.
Six hours each day and they, I'm looking at the photos here of the behind.
It actually looks amazing in the photos, it might have just been...
It's gone forever now.
I can't hurt you.
Well, you know, it wasn't a very small screen.
In standard definition.
Yeah that's true.
It looks amazing, though, on Blu-ray. amazingly terrible.
They squirted some...
Eyedrops in his face.
But I think he's tearing up.
Like, I think that that's kind of interesting because he is quite emotional in this episode while still being controlled, I think.
It's like he can just not believe like everything is still there they were going to be dead, you know?
I can't understand why.
I can't believe that.
There's still a lot of brandy left.
Well, not in this round.
But your brandy is actually what caused the wrinkles.
Yeah.
You know, how Barry Morse had, you know, conflicting stories to tell.
Everyone was embittered at the end of this series.
Nothing really went more for any of them.
Even the Landales didn't really get...
Well, they didn't get any love back, mind you, they didn't give much, but they took it so seriously.
And really just these moments between these two.
Yeah, I can't picture anybody better than Landar playing this part.
It's wonderful, isn't it?
This, just their joy at still being alive and the mystery of where they are now.
And again, because this isn't a show about them trying to get home.
Oh, thank you. on the other side of the universe.
Yeah, yeah.
No, it's got a defeat.
It's got a defeatism to it.
That is so English.
Oh, so British, I should say, and just really nicely done.
But this was SF in the early 70s.
It was totally dystopian.
It is the absolute weirdness of where they are and how distant they are.
Already there 100s and 1000s of years, you know, beyond their presence.
Yeah, that's right.
And now they've jumped to a black hole. back on Christmas on snow plough alerts.
You haven't seen it white for a while.
Oh no, this episode is all being white.
Yeah.
Oh no, we had some blue earlier.
There's some lovely moments where we say, that's right, where we say, you know, none of that actually was possible and none of that really worked.
And look at that.
Yeah, yeah.
There's Tonka Toy Alexander in the background.
Only to our mates.
And again, this, you know, where we're waiting to see the special effect, what they're reacting to, but we just get lots of gradual close-ups of everyone's reaction first.
Sorry, I was distracted by Prentice Hancocks.
I feel weird about it as well, James.
It's okay.
Someone good, my lawyer.
I can't consider your consider your loins good.
It's so beautifully.
Oh, and that shot.
I know.
And I love how they mask that it's a multi-layer.
So, you know, you only see black behind the eagle.
I have no problem with that. gorgeous.
It's the same thing with the stars, but having it come into the moon on the dark side of the moon.
It looks beautiful.
And the Japanese woodcut.
It's also the crispness and how monochrome it is as well, just works incredibly well.
The level of contrast.
How exciting this was to look at.
Oh, yeah.
There was nothing like it.
Oh, pretty beautiful people.
Happy young people.
Count Federica.
There's David Robb.
Okay, blonde big hair at the back.
Okay.
He's Dr. Clarkson in Downton Abbey.
Ah, there's, oh, my God. stretching yourself again, Lady Mary.
Yes, that one.
I'll point him out when he appears.
There you go. behind the both of them.
He looks very unhappy. what's going on in this scene.
Please, Mr. he's missed out on thing.
All I've got is a couple of reaction shots.
But look, Victor's smoking because he has learned not to give a fuck.
He's basically learned that God will save him for the length of his contract.
They're going to write Bob looks.
They'll be at the season, I might as well die from lung cancer.
Something brought us home.
And just before that line, she actually did like a 30 degree turn before the camera was zooming in, like the opening title.
That's because she stands on Victor's Lazy Susan.
They just wheel her around.
I know.
It's wonderful. sometimes a cigar is just a cigar.
No, yeah, sometimes it's just a symbol of not giving a fart.
Let's just have fun.
Yes, but this shot that's about to come up where they all just dissipate.
They all dissipate and then and then Victor just kind of strolls off and just it's just... so charming.
Is it just so charming?
Isn't that gorgeous?
Yeah.
It's amazingly good, isn't it?
I really love this episode.
Smutty was great too, John Moran.
You know, for something that we said, there's not lot going on in this.
I wasn't bored and I wasn't lost for conversation.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You know what I think it is.
And, you know, Star Trek did do this kind of plot where we're heading towards a disaster and then we're going to hit it at minute 45 and at minute 47 we solve it.
Whereas this, it's like we're heading towards a disaster and all the preparation is done by minute 30.
So the last 2 weeks, it's about how we fake, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, thank you.
That is interesting.
Yeah, that is the strength of this episode is they realise they're all going to die about 10, 15 minutes in.
And then the rest of the episode is just they're going, what the fuck do we do now?
Yeah.
But they're not panicky idiots. contemplating their mortality.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And yeah, no one has to be struck across the face because, you know, they haven't had their 2nd couple.
Yeah.
Yes.
Well, we had, I mean, Zenny got to faint earlier on.
Which, I think, is understood.
No, no, no.
I agree.
And then after that, you know, like we're all just kind of being normal.
And I thought that was really good.
And I think that the strangeness of it is clearly the result of everything that had to be chopped out.
It sounded like that it was massively overwritten.
Oh, wouldn't that, I don't mind.
I don't either.
Yeah, I don't know.
Like you say, if Bringers of Wonder can be too episode.
That's right With the bloody Gelts from Red Dwarf.
They do look...
They do look pretty great.
Sorry, not the Gelfs.
Yeah, sorry, the pleasure Guelph.
Yes, the pleasure girl from Red Dwarf Camille.
Not the bat, not the bat kind of game.
Steady off, no. yeah, no.
Yeah, yeah.
Well, I think there's a reason why I remember that.
And I think that it might be one of the reasons, this episode that I love Victor so much because of just the just the sheer positive humanity.
And, well, that's I think that's the same thing.
Well, that should have been the name of the podcast.
The sluttiness of humanity.
Sluttiness of Barry Morse.
Anyway, on that note.
All right.
Do we have things to plug?
No.
Brendan, we do.
No, not yet.
No. this weekend.
Oh, yes.
This week, this weekend we are putting out game over on the three-handed game.
Oh, okay.
Which is oddly not the episode the podcast is named of.
No, we're finishing off the pop explosion with a trip into Tara Kingland for what is regarded by many as one of her best episodes.
If not one of the all time. called game featuring Peter Jeffrey.
Ooh, I love that idea.
Yes.
Is he so lenient?
in this episode?
No, he is not remotely lean.
Okay.
He's a beast.
Sounds great.
And you know what?
He manages to be far more terrifying than Michael Goff as the toy maker.
Yeah, he does, actually. with a similar kind of aesthetic.
You know what he reminds me of?
Delgado's master.
Yes.
Yes, that's a very good very good cool.
And yeah, and before that as well, because it's 1969.
Okay, okay.
Not the rock and roll yet.
Well, I have I have basically nothing to plug.
Oh, come on.
Well, you know, untitled Star Trek Project continues unabated and that's about it.
We are doing maximum power.
We could be watching Maximum Power.
Headhunter this week?
Yes.
I think so.
I also have to plug the fact that I will be organising the recording of season 2 of 500 year diary soon.
Oh, great.
Yeah.
So we have that to look forward to later on in the 1st half of the year, I think.
Well, if they sort my shit out.
Well, I believe the theme is the 2nd orgasm.
Is that right?
The 2nd 2nd grade 2nd coming, great.
Okay, that makes more sense.
Yeah.
Relatively few orgasms in Doctor Who.
Yeah, not although.
There's an Orkanon.
That's true.
There's a rato.
And I mean, you get him together with Alan Rowe.
Not an orgasmatron.
It's Barbarella.
Quite.
All right.
Well, in that case, all that remains is for me to say, until next time, remember, you should always drink the brandy now, while you still can.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Just ask me first, good night.
Oh fuck off.